Let me spend a minute here just to discuss a common thing that comes up if you pay for electricity that
is the kilowatt hour the kilowatt hour is often abbreviated just using kwh like this.
If you open up your electricity bill just to watch this video it's going to cost you a certain amount
of money not only from you me but just from the energy that you're using to turn on your computer.
To power your headphones for example.
Ogie and the cost of energy or electricity anyway in the U.S. is approximately 12 cents per kilowatt
hour.
So let's use some dimensional dimensional analysis to give this a go.
So kilo is just a prefix for 1000.
Now the one that we should know a watt is energy right.
Our fuel per unit time
and one hour oil that we know the hour is simply a unit of time.
So this is the unit for a watt.
This is the unit for time for our.
So at the end we have to have we have time here in the numerator time in the denominator.
This is going to give us units of energy at the end right.
Is this going to at the end if I really wanted to convert things I should be able to show that this
comes in units of Jewel and that is a basic unit of energy and S-I unit system.
So let's go ahead and maybe look at that a little bit more.
So what if I wanted to convert this kilowatts into jewel kilowatt hours rather individual let's go see
all we could do that.
So we start off let's assume we just have one kilowatt hour.
OK.
At the end of the day I want to get something in.
I mean the jewel is that well what do I want to do.
I want to get rid of this.
Well let's get rid of the killer right away.
Right.
Because in one K I have a thousand.
Let's say in one kilowatt I have a thousand watts that'll take care of the first term and now while
I want to get rid of ours I want to get rid of ours I need to divide by hours.
I can go through by going through minutes and then I also want to get rid of minutes and I want to have
minutes here and maybe go to seconds at the end.
OK and that should take care of the units because we start crossing things out kilowatts are going to
cancel here I'll be left with Watts an hour is going to cancel with this one minute is going to cancel
with this one.
And at the end I'm going to get with I'll be left with what multiplied with seconds over here.
And I know that that should give me units of Jewel and Esai units.
Let me just complete this bracket over here in one hour.
I know there is 60 Minutes and in one minute I know there's 60 seconds.
So all I have to do now is just carry this out so you get a thousand.
Multiplied by says 3600 that you get 3600 multiply by a thousand.
So you get three million six hundred thousand joules is equivalent to one kilowatt hour.
Let's write that down.
So you can see they energy companies probably wouldn't want to advertise there.
Well the rates would be pretty low mind you but people would end up using so much energy and Zul and
might scare them off.
Right.
So three million six hundred was unusual.
So the rate that you're paying you are paying a certain amount of money per unit energy that you use
the rate at which you use it at the watt part of it here really doesn't matter.
It's always the amount of the rate that you use multiply by how much time you're going to use that appliance
for.
Right.
To give you the total energy that really matters at the end of the day.
OK.
So kilowatt hour is nothing more than a another fancy word just to say the total energy that you're
going to use.